.TH CAS 1 "DECEMBER 2023" "version 2.20" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME 

cas \- Assemble Clown assembly language source files into binary files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cas 
[-h|--help] [-P|--nocpp] [--pass-to-cpp
.IR "options" ] 
[-b|--cle] [-s|--clo] [-e|--entry
.IR address ] 
[-o
.IR output-file ] 
[-v|--version][-l|--listing] [-ng|--nodebug] [-V] [--]
.I source-file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cas
is the Clown assembler, responsible for transforming source files written in Clown assembly language into binary files. These binary files contain executable Clown instructions, symbol tables, and debug information. A binary file is immediately executable (a
.SM CLE
file) if it is free of unresolved symbols and segments and lacks relocation information. If not, the output is an object file (a
.SM CLO
file), requiring linkage with other
.SM CLO
files for execution.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Display the help message and exit.
.TP 
\-P|\-\-nocpp
Bypass preprocessing of the source with the C preprocessor,
.B cpp
.TP 
\-\-pass-to-cpp "options"
Pass 
.I
options to the C preprocessor,
.BR cpp.
if the environment variable 
.SM CLOWN 
is set, the option 
.I -I($CLOWN/include/) 
is automatically passed to
.B cpp.
.TP
\-b|\-\-cle
Generate a directly executable, non-relocatable
.SM CLE 
module (default).
.TP
\-s|\-\-clo
Create a relocatable
.SM CLO 
module.
.TP
\-e|\-\-entry addr
Set the start address to 
.I addr 
(default 0)
.TP
\-o output-file
Specify the output file name as
.I output-file.
The default is 
.IR source-file .cle 
for 
.SM CLE 
modules and 
.IR source-file .clo 
for 
.SM CLO 
modules, where
.I source-file 
is the input file name, minus the suffix
.IR .s
.TP 
\-l, \-\-listing
Generate a human-readable listing alongside the binary file.
.TP
\-ng|\-\-nodebug
Exclude file and line debugging information.
.TP 
\-v|\-\-version
Show the version number and exit.
.TP 
\-V
Show the version number and continue.
.TP
\-\-
Interpret the next argument as a file name, even if it resembles
another command line option.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 
CLOWN
If set, then option 
.I -I($CLOWN/include/) 
is passed to the 
.B cpp 
implicitly.

.SH AUTHOR
Dmitry Zinoviev <dzinoviev at suffolk dot edu>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clown (1),
.BR clink (1),
.BR cpp (1)
