.TH CDISKDUP 1 "DECEMBER 2023" "version 2.20" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME 

cdiskdup \- Copy host system files to and from the Clown disk image file.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdiskdup 
[-h|--help] [-v]

.B cdiskdup 
[-sector
.IR sec ] 
[-track
.IR tr ] 
[-count
.IR cnt ]
[-unpack]  [-q] -todisk
.I host-file

.B cdiskdup 
[-sector
.IR sec ]
[-track
.IR tr ] 
[-count
.IR cnt ]
[-unpack] [-q] -fromdisk
.I host-file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cdiskdup
transfers files between the host system and the Clown disk image file.
.P

By default,
.B cdiskdup
copies data directly, meaning each host word is converted into a Clown
word, and each Clown word is transformed back into a host word. When
the
.I \-unpack
option is used, each host byte is stored as a Clown word, and each
Clown word is read as a host byte, with the least significant byte of
the Clown word being recorded and the remaining three bytes
discarded. This option is useful for text files, as Clown treats
printable characters as words.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP 
\-sector sec 
Specify the sector for reading/writing as
.I sec
(default: 0).
.TP 
\-track tr 
Specify the track for reading/writing as
.I tr
(default: 0).
.TP
\-count cnt
Read at most
.I cnt 
blocks (default: entire disk).
.TP
\-unpack
Convert 8-bit characters to Clown words when writing to disk, and
Clown words to 8-bit characters when reading.
.TP
\-fromdisk
Transfer data from the disk image to the specified
.I host-file
.TP
\-todisk
Copy data from the specified
.I host-file
to the disk image.
.TP 
\-q, \-\-silent 
Operate silently, suppressing warnings and error messages.
.TP 
\-v
Show version number and exit.

.SH FILES
The disk image is located in the file
.IR clown.dsk .

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 
CLOWN_DISC When set, the disk image file is located in the directory
specified by variable
.IR CLOWN_DISC .

.SH AUTHOR
Dmitry Zinoviev <dzinoviev at suffolk dot edu>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clown (1),
.BR cformat (1)
