.TH CLINK 1 "DECEMBER 2023" "version 2.20" "USER COMMANDS"

.SH NAME 

clink \- Clown object file linker.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clink 
[-h|--help] [-b|--cle] [-s|--clo] [-o
.IR output-file ] 
[-v|--version] [-l|--listing] [-q|--silent] [-ng|--nodebug] [-V] [--]
.I clo-files
...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clink,
the Clown linker, combines multiple
.SM CLO
(Clown Object) files into a single
.SM CLE
(Clown Executable) file or a
.SM CLO
(Clown Object Library file). This tool is essential for creating executable programs or libraries from individual object files.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h, \-\-help
Display the help message and exit.
.TP 
\-b, \-\-cle 
Create a non-relocatable, directly executable
.SM CLE 
module
.I (default)
.TP 
\-s, \-\-clo 
Create a relocatable 
.SM CLO 
module (a library)
.TP 
\-o output-file
Specify the output file name as
.I output-file.
Default names are 
.I default.cle 
for 
.SM 
CLE 
modules and 
.I default.clo 
for 
.SM CLO 
modules.
.TP 
\-v, \-\-version 
Display the linker's version number and exit.
.TP 
\-l, \-\-listing
Produce a listing of the linking process.
.TP 
\-q, \-\-silent 
Operate silently, suppressing warnings and error messages.
.TP 
\-ng, \-\-nodebug 
Exclude debugging-related file and line information.
.TP 
\-V 
Display the linker's version number and continue.
.TP 
\-\- 
Interpret the next argument as a file name, even if it resembles a command line option.

.SH AUTHOR
Dmitry Zinoviev <dzinoviev at suffolk dot edu>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clown (1),
.BR cas (1)
